# W3C call 08/28/2018

## Participants

- Alois Reitbauer
- Bogdan Drutu
- Sergey Kanzhelev
- Erika Arnold
- Ted Young
- Reiley Yang
- Yuri Shkuro

## Decision to make specs public

Alois asked whether anyone objects making the specs public. People uniformly
agreed to officially share the specs

## Test Suite

Reiley did a demo of the current state of the harness.

Yuri: How to control the behavior of the harness?

Sergey: We will trigger different URL for different behavior

Yuri: Makes sense, but not currently part of PR

Yuri: Can we make it simpler to only use a single language

Reiley and Sergey: Agreed

Yuri: CLI should be primary goal as it is easy to integrate into Continuous Build systems. 

Yuri: Best case we use a Docker image to run the tests.

Yuri: Did we discuss having shared libraries for parsing

Sergey: So far we did not discuss. Opencensus can be the lib for us

Alois: Fabian showed a library last time.

Bogdan: discussion moved to github: https://github.com/w3c/distributed-tracing/issues/169

*We decided to move all the code over to one language (ideally node.js) and also
provide it as a Docker image*

## FPWD milestone issues

List of issues: https://github.com/w3c/distributed-tracing/milestone/4

### Let's discuss recorded flag before FPWD announcement #167

[Issue](https://github.com/w3c/distributed-tracing/issues/167) discussion.

Platforms will respect the sampling flag. As well as some vendors inside the
boundaries of a single microservice. So having flag is beneficial.

We re-iterated on reasoning for the additional bit. Also re-hashed Berlin's
discussion and decisions from there.

We decided that people put down their use cases again regarding what they need
to pass on and also what information they are going the respect from other
services.

Erika for NewRelic, Bogdan for Google, Alois for DynaTrace, Ted for Lightstep.
Scenarios should cover both - trace initiation and trace continuation

We will put this on the agenda for the next meeting again.

### Value format section is confusing #168

It is editorial issue that can clarify the scenario. Feel free to submit a PR to
clarify the behavior.

### How and when are you allowed to restart a trace #146

This issues is also mostly editorial - clarification of behavior. Feel free to
submit a PR to clarify the behavior.

### Explain aggressive 512 limit of tracestate in spec #109

Request to all vendors to post example of tracestate. Yuri's proposal in the
issue looks nice, we need to identify what will be the minimum length this spec
will require to propagate.