# Implementor Workshop, Aug 6-7, Seattle

## Goals and notes

The goal of the workshop is to show the current progress of Trace-Context implementations as well as a joint interoperability test suite.  If you come to the workshop you should have a working implementation of Trace-Context based context propagation. The workshop is targeted towards tracing tool providers as well as middleware providers like service meshes.

If we find the time we will also reserve a slot to continue our discussion on a joint trace data format.

Agenda: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ekFjRD9rUZsmI98-fcBu8abx7BpQgDbrJjDZ6FvnB-s/edit
Notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Zh871qWTew8Rzhz6jhFW0nxeC1ax1kAovQW8RFF5bCA/edit#heading=h.baunpkwo3uf9

## Participants

1. Alois Reitbauer (Dynatrace)
2. Christoph Neumüller (Dynatrace)
3. Daniel Khan (Dynatrace)
4. Sergey Kanzhelev (Microsoft)
5. Nik Molnar (Microsoft)
6. Erika Arnold (New Relic)
7. Natalie Wolfe (New Relic)
8. Ted Young (LightStep)
9. Morgan McLean (Google)
10. Liudmila Molkova (Microsoft)
11. Reiley Yang (Microsoft)
12. Zaki Maksyutov (Microsoft)
13. Fabian Lange, Instana
14. Ben Ripkens, Instana
15. Yuri Shkuro, Uber

We thank Microsoft for hosting this event.

## Results

Thank you all participants of Implementors Workshop! We had a very productive time discussing issues and future plans for the distributed tracing context propagation. During the workshop we closed a few outstanding issues and completed two milestones: **experiment** and **migrate**.

As part of **experiment** milestones completion we had demos from Instana, Microsoft, Google, New Relic and Dynatrace which confirm usability of protocol. As well as end-to-end trace run thru components monitored by Application Insights, Dynatrace and New Relic. Milestone **migrate** was completed as we officially transferred work from W3C community group to the [working group](https://www.w3.org/2018/distributed-tracing/).

Our plan is to close the remaining of [issues](https://github.com/w3c/distributed-tracing/milestone/4) for the **First Public Working Draft** this month. For the **Candidate Recommendation** milestone we agreed to draft how binary, AMQP and MQTT protocols might look like to confirm that proposal is universal enough.

Thank you again for productive discussions and contributions!